Abstract

The advent of technology and the internet has led to an increasing demand for Ecommerce industries. People of all ages prefer online shopping. This increasing trend for online purchasing was highly noticeable during the pandemic. The growth in online purchase has created a need to understand how the customer perceives online shopping and purchases. Large-scale data analytics in e-commerce is still in its nascent stage and there is plenty to learn about it in all facets. Analyzing such data is known as shopping behavior analysis which is predominantly used by many online retailers for identifying consumer’s buying patterns and preferences. This information can be further used for making predictions about the market trend, setting up promotions, improving the overall user experience, recommending products which are likely to be bought based on their purchase history and in-turn also benefit the retailers by increasing their sales. This can be done by collecting the consumer’s data such as their emotional experiences while buying a product, cost the consumer is willing to pay, the times at which most maximum shopping is observed, the product brand most preferred by consumer, etc. The purpose of this analysis is to understand what factors influence most in terms of consumer shopping experience and purchases. Ecommerce data being huge, scalability is an issue while analyzing the data. Hence the aim of this project is to analyze consumer behavior patterns using AWS cloud computing services (such as S3, AWS Glue, Athena) and visualize (using Tableau) the major factors affecting sales.
